All right, so we're now in the Out of Ordinary video
for access modifiers.
We explored the concept of a private constructor
in a previous section.
Section seven, overloading methods,
and showed you how you can use it to prevent
any instance of a particular class from being created.
That was at the single tone.
Let's explore access modifiers and constructors a bit more.
So we're back in our encapsulation project,
we need to create a new package,
and also a new class.
So I'm going to first call the package
package one, pkgOne and the class then LevelTwoClass.
There's the code.
So LevelOneClass has a protected
and also a package private constructor.
You see there's two there,
and LevelTwoClass you can see that extends to LevelOneClass.
You need also has a protected
and packaged access constructors.
So far so good.
All right next, we want to create another package
and also another class.
So let's go ahead and do that.
For this one we're gonna call it package two, pkgTwo,
and the class I am going to call ConstructorAccess.
Okay, so there's the code for that.
So I can see the LevelThreeClass here extends
to LevelTwoClass.
We've also got a package private constructor
as well as a private constructor,
that takes what I've given.
And further on and down further
is that constructor access class,
indeed it's got a main method that
instantiates the LevelThreeClass object.
So executing this code,
we saw that that executes the package level constructor,
which is valid since these classes
are in the signed package,
so once you're down there
LevelThreeClass now has a constructor.
So the LevelThreeClass instructor with no perimeter,
this one has the package-private one.
You can see that that change to constructor call
to its own private constructor,
which has got one argument there.
You can see that that two was actually caught
down at the bottom of the screen.
Now that package LevelThreeClass constructor makes a call
to its super constructor,
and barring on a more, we're extending LevelTwoClass,
so therefore LevelTwoClass is calling the
LevelTwoClass constructor with no arguments.
It's because they here
have the protected access constructor.
Now this is valid 'cause LevelTwoClasses with
no args structures to clear the protected
and the LevelThreeClass extends LevelTwoClass
so this is valid.
Now the LevelTwoClass with no args constructor,
this one here,
will cause the LevelOneClass no arguments constructor
implicitly.
And we can obviously see that any of them with the
LevelOneClass with no args constructor.
This is okay two, because LevelOneClass
with no args constructor,
we come back and have a look at that.
We can see that's also protected,
and the LevelTwoClass extends to LevelOneClass as we knew.
So, that's all working correctly.
Now at this point,
it would be very easy to break the code down,
and you may be tested without having the compiler
to complain for you when constructors
that do not play nicely with each other.
Now obviously there working here,
but we can easily simulate this
by looking at our LevelTwoClass again,
and specifically this constructor on line 27.
So if we delete the protected access modifier.
Now this doesn't make any difference
to this particular code,
but if we go back to our constructor access,
suddenly there's an error.
Super.
LevelThreeCLass is not public on or in package
one dot LevelTwoClass.
It can not be accessed through an outside package.
In other words, you can no longer use super
to call that constructor from this LevelThreeClass
either explicitly or by removing the super statement,
which calls it implicitly.
So obviously I can remove that,
we still got an error here.
Notify constructor of applicant.
They saw there that initially the compiled error
was on the super statement,
and then when I commented that out,
the error is now on the constructor definition
if it doesn't exist.
Now removing the protected modifier on the LevelTwoClass
makes it it a package-private constructor.
This constructor is not available to LevelThreeClass
even if it extends to LevelTwoClass,
because the LevelThreeClass is not defined
in the same package as the LevelTwoClass.
So let me do that change there
and go back and undo this one.
We'll see that the area disappears,
and we're able to run the code again.
Watch out for something similar to that in the exam.
You may well be tested at that,
and again you may have the
compiler there to flag an error.
That should actually be ahead of this scenario.
All right, so in the last few videos
we discussed the importance of access modifiers
and the variations permitted for a sub-class,
for harding attributes and overriding method.
Another quiz coming up,
and after that we're going to move
on to applying encapsulating videos to a class.
See you in the next video.